
Questions to ask ourselves in enumeration iteration:

```
- What can we see?
- What reasons can we have for seeing it?
- What image does what we see create for us?
- What do we gain from it?
- How can we use it?
- What can we not see?
- What reasons can there be that we do not see?
- What image results for us from what we do not see?
```

Principles to follow:

```
1. There is more than meets the eye. Consider all points of view
2. Distinguish between what we see and what we do not see
3. There are always ways to gain more information. Understand the target.
```


# Methodology

A static enumeration process that we can follow can be divided into three different levels:
1. Infrastructure-based enumeration (internet presence, gateway)
2. Host-based enumeration (Accessible Services, Processes)
3. OS-based enumeration (privileges, OS setup)

we should imagine going from 1 through to 3 are like obstacles that we need to attempt to get through.

## Layer 1 Internet Presence

In this layer we want to find targets we can investigate to find domains, subdomains, netblocks and other components and information that present the presence of the company and its infra on the internet.

The goal here is to find all possible targets and interfaces that can be tested.

## Layer 2 Gateway

In this layer we try to understand the interface of the reachable target, how its protected and where its located in the network.

The goal here is to understand what were dealing with an what to watch out for.

## Layer 3 Accessible Services

In this layer we examine each target/destination for all the services it offers. Each service has been installed for a reason to provide a specific service by an administrator. Each service has certain functions which lead to specific results. We need to understand how they work to work effectively with them. Or learn how they work.

The goal here is to understand reason and functionality of the target system and gain the needed knowledge to communicate with it and exploit it for our purposes.

## Layer 4 Processes

 In this layer, every time a command or function is executed, data is processed, whether entered by the user of generated by the system. This starts a process that has to perform specific tasks, and such tasks have at least one source and one target.

The goal is to understand these factors and identify the dependencies between them.

## Layer 5 Privileges

Each services runs through a specific user in a particular group with permissions and privileges defined by the administrator or system.

Such privileges often provide us with functions that admins overlook. Often in AD infra and many other case specific environments and servers where users are responsible for multiple admin areas.

The goal here is to identify these and understand what is and is not possible with them.

## Layer 6 OS setup

In this layer we collection information about the actual operating system and its setup using internal access. Giving us a good overview of the internal security of the systems and reflects the skills and capabilities of the company's admin teams.

 The goal is to see how admins manage the systems and what sensitive internal info we can get from them



